[Autogenerated] I don't know about you,
but I feel a demo would be very welcomed right now.
So let's go ahead and implement and execute Mila queries In spring applications,
we will explore filtering ranging from simple to advanced was Take a look at
sorting Beijing and finally will implement full tech search.
So let's get to work before we can implement queries.
We have toe add some information into the database,
so to do liberty and created six documents in the
airport management flights collection.
So we have a couple of flights over here with various
properties that will help us write enquiries.
Awesome.
Now we can start to write some coat.
This is the application, as you left it in our previous module.
I hope you remember it.
Flight information was the main entity.
It is the class that we're going to persist in mongo TB.
Now, let's go ahead and implement some queries.
I created this package parasite,
airport management queries and I have this empty class over here.
Flight information queries.
Flight information queries is an outdated with at service because
I want to inject it in our spring application.
Now you can altitude with our component also,
But I really believe that this class is really a service,
So I wanted to make things as explicit as possible.
The first thing that we need to do before you write any operation against
the Mongol database ist injected the manga template.
And this is what we did over here.
Have a private Molitor pretty yield,
which is injected via the constructor and then
spring will take care of the rest.
In the comments, you can see all the requirements that are expected of us.
We have to build queries that tree of all the flights with Beijing and sorting.
You have to retrieved flights by D.
You have to count all the international sites.
And then we have to provide methods to find all the flights by departure city,
all the flight through the duration between them in a max,
all the flights delayed at a particular airport,
flights that are on time and that relate to a particular city and to
find fights by aircraft module who have a lot to do.
So let's get to work.
I'm going to deliver a comment and rather queries using some snippet magic.
Brilliant.
Let's take a look at these queries we have find all
over here we define the query.
We name it all paged and ordered.
And then we define an empty query.
Remember, want to find all the flight information?
So we do not have to provide criteria but you to
provide sorting and imagination and, of course,
used the Mongol template we call the fine method
personal query and the flight information.
That class type find single bidi is simpler because we just have to delegate
the coal to find by any method on the Mongol template.
Then we need to count all the international flights and return their number.
We're building a new query we add in this criteria where type is international,
and then we're using the current method on the mobile
temple class to retrieve that number.
We can also find flights by departure.
We create a new query.
We call it by departure,
and we add in this criteria where departure is departure,
the string that we will receive in his method and then we delegated
to the fine method on the model of the class.
There's go to something a little bit more complex.
Let's find all the flights that have a duration
between a mean and the max value.
The greatest query over here by duration between,
we add in the criteria on the duration mean field.
And then we change together two operators greater than or
equals and then less than equals every passing the mean
and the max number of minutes.
And then we are sorting his result in a descending order
by the flight duration off course, we pass this to the Mongol template,
find method and that's it.
If you want to find all the delayed flights at a particular departure,
we can use this quarry delayed a departure.
We have two criteria.
The first criteria is to fill their flights that are delayed.
We have this over here where delayed is true,
and then we can use the second criteria.
Using the end method and departure is the departure city,
and this is how we can chain toe criteria together.
Let's find all the fights related to a city that that are not delayed.
Here.
Things get really interesting because you have to use our
operators and end operators so it gives our query and we add
in this criteria in the operator,
we want to fill their flights that relates to a given city.
So where the destination or departure is equal to that city
And then I also want to restrict the slights and make sure
that they're not the late.
That's why we use the end operator over here.
A passing the appropriate criteria.
We can see how easy it is to build queries using this fluent interface.
They all follow the same recipe unless banalities you want to
find all the fat information by aircraft.
So again, rebuilding a criteria.
And look at the syntax over here where aircraft that model is
aircraft aircraft is a property of flight information and
model is a property on aircraft.
And remember, we can perform queries in sub documents.
I want to execute all queries using the application Rommel class.
This class implements the command line runner,
and if you remember from the previous module,
Camaro and runners are executed after a spring application is bootstrapped.
We have a dependency on flight information that
will inject together constructor, and then we have this run method over here.
So again, we're going to use some intelligent e snippet magic,
and we're going to run all of our queries and they look the same
from we're printing the query that execute.
And then we are calling every method on the flight information Cory
Service and then reaching the flight printer class to print the
result for every query that we have defined.
So go ahead.
We run the application and it's all come that we get and we have all the results
displayed here and let's let's take a look at the particular quality a part of
New York can see that only one result displayed.
Then we have delayed departures as given airport and the airport is Madrid.
So the State Department red.
And we also see that the flight is delayed.
It appears that all of our careers have worked successfully,
which is just amazing.
I don't know about you, but I'm very eager to implement a full tech search.
The first thing that we need to do to implement food
tech search is to use the annotations,
the at text indexed annotations as a deliberate Ito Adam on the departure city.
This nation,
city and description not is that the text index on the
description has a weight off to We shall see how this
affect the search results later on.
Now let's go back of the flight information,
quits class and adding a new worry for free tech search.
And let's take a good look at his method.
This method receives a string call text does the free text
by which you want to perform the search.
Then we define or text criteria a special type off criteria.
This criteria depends on the language in which you want to perform the search.
In our case,
we just use the default system language and then we're
going to match against the given text.
Not that we have our text criteria.
Just go ahead and build a query will name it by free text,
and we're going to create it by using text query that pretext method.
And then we're going to pass in the text bacteria.
We're going to sort the results by the score.
And the score is the internal score that Mangal will compute for the free
tech search based on the weights of the text in Texas.
And then we're going to patch in it this and return
the first page with free results.
We're going to pass this to the Mongol template and executed.
The last piece of the puzzle is to actually execute that coat we're going toe,
print all the flights,
and then we're going to call the fine by free text
method and pass in the text off room.
Let's run the application and see what's happening, and we have our results.
All the fights are displayed above and are free text.
Search my room, which is paid below.
Look at the order of these documents.
The 1st 1 is the flight from Rome to Paris is the 1st 1 because it
contains room both in departure and the description.
The 2nd 1 is New York to Copenhagen,
and it was selected because it contains Rome in the description.
Remember, that description has a bigger weight,
and the last point is Bucharest to Rome and as the last one,
because it only contains room the destination.
Now, of course,
you might argue that the way we created the weights is not correct,
because we would expect that bequest to wrong to be
situated above your to Copenhagen.
But that's exactly what I wanted to point out the importance of weights when you're using text indexes